Gaurava Yadav | Founder & Moderator
Indian Principals' Network
Gaurava Yadav, Founder & Moderator, Indian Principals' Network
Gaurava Yadav
International Award-Winning Entrepreneur | Founder, Indian Principals' Network (IPN) FORUM Gaurava Yadav is an International Award-winning entrepreneur and a prominent figure in the Indian Subcontinent's education ecosystem. As the founder of the Indian Principals' Network (IPN) FORUM, India's largest knowledge network of school leaders, he has been instrumental in transforming educational leadership and teacher development. Under his visionary leadership, the IPN FORUM has empowered over 15,000 school leaders and more than 500,000 teachers, fostering a culture of excellence and continuous growth in education. Gaurava’s efforts are dedicated to bridging the gap in educational upskilling and creating impactful learning experiences across India and neighboring regions

Founder and Moderator, INDIAN PRINCIPALS' NETWORK(IPN), Winner- Asia Communication Awards-2012, Singapore
My team and I are deeply committed to transforming the global school education landscape, both for today and the future. We actively collaborate with all key stakeholders—including students, teachers, school leaders, founders, and managers—through our diverse brands, all united by a singular focus: empowering schools worldwide. By addressing current challenges and anticipating future needs, we strive to drive innovation, upskilling, and meaningful change in education at a global scale.

ExperienceExperience
INDIAN PRINCIPALS' NETWORK(IPN Foundation) logo
Founder & Moderator
Founder & Moderator
IPN-INDIAN PRINCIPALS' NETWORK · Full-timeIPN-INDIAN PRINCIPALS' NETWORK · Full-time
Mar 2016 - Present · 9 yrs 2 mosMar 2016 to Present · 9 yrs 2 mos
IndiaIndia
Est. in Year 2016, IPN embarked on its journey of collaboration, exchange and best practice sharing among school leaders as the core pillars of its work. IPN has worked with over 15,000+ School leaders from across 55+ Countries and 423+ Indian and Global cities being represented under IPN. We at IPN are Empowering School Leaders from India and abroad for a better tomorrow.

www.ipnindia.inEst. in Year 2016, IPN embarked on its journey of collaboration, exchange and best practice sharing among school leaders as the core pillars of its work. IPN has worked with over 15,000+ School leaders from across 55+ Countries and 423+ Indian and Global cities being represented under IPN. We at IPN are Empowering School Leaders from India and abroad for a better tomorrow. www.ipnindia.in…see more
EduAce Group  logo
EduAce Services
EduAce Services
12 yrs 4 mos12 yrs 4 mos
IndiaIndia
International Award Winner & Quizmaster
International Award Winner & Quizmaster
Aug 2017 - Present · 7 yrs 9 mosAug 2017 to Present · 7 yrs 9 mos
Founder & CEO, EduAce Services
Founder & CEO, EduAce Services
Jan 2013 - Present · 12 yrs 4 mosJan 2013 to Present · 12 yrs 4 mos
Building India's biggest School Quiz company, with an eye for special talent from Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns

Year 2017 : 43 Tier 2 Cities reached, 10 States covered and 1,50,000+ students 

Year 2016 : 21 Tier 2 Cities reached, 6 states covered and 1,00,000+ students 

Year 2015 : 16 Cities, States covered Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttrakhand. 

Building India's biggest School Quiz company, with an eye for special talent from Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns Year 2017 : 43 Tier 2 Cities reached, 10 States covered and 1,50,000+ students Year 2016 : 21 Tier 2 Cities reached, 6 states covered and 1,00,000+ students Year 2015 : 16 Cities, States covered Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttrakhand. …see more
Tulip Telecom logo
Tulip Telecom
Tulip Telecom
4 yrs 9 mos4 yrs 9 mos
Lead- Digital/Social Media Marketing
Lead- Digital/Social Media Marketing
Apr 2011 - Dec 2012 · 1 yr 9 mosApr 2011 to Dec 2012 · 1 yr 9 mos
New Delhi Area, IndiaNew Delhi Area, India
Brand Communication, Social Media Marketing, Industry relationsBrand Communication, Social Media Marketing, Industry relations
Asst.Manager-Marketing
Asst.Manager-Marketing
Apr 2008 - Jun 2011 · 3 yrs 3 mosApr 2008 to Jun 2011 · 3 yrs 3 mos
In my current capacity i am looking after companies media, industry chambers relations &amp; facilitate investors relations.

Includes: Agency handling, media relations, representing company at various industry chambers viz CII, ASSOCHAM, NASSCOM, FICCI, NIXI, ISPAI, IMA &amp; others 

Also, working on companies stakeholders outreach program through &quot;social media platforms&quot;. Having successfully launched &quot;India's 1st online exclusive platform for Tech practitioners&quot; 

Property: Grey Gambit
Launched : 20th August 2009
Membership Status : 1000+ active members
Web address: www.greygambit.com

Target audience: CIO, CTO, Head-IT, DGM-IT &amp; other Technology Leaders.

Projects in pipeline: 
1. Comprehensive online PAN India Employee &quot;social media&quot; platform. 
2. Other stakeholders outreach platforms on &quot;social media&quot;In my current capacity i am looking after companies media, industry chambers relations &amp; facilitate investors relations. Includes: Agency handling, media relations, representing company at various industry chambers viz CII, ASSOCHAM, NASSCOM, FICCI, NIXI, ISPAI, IMA &amp; others Also, working on companies stakeholders outreach program through &quot;social media platforms&quot;. Having successfully launched &quot;India's 1st online exclusive platform for Tech practitioners&quot; Property: Grey Gambit Launched : 20th August 2009 Membership Status : 1000+ active members Web address: www.greygambit.com Target audience: CIO, CTO, Head-IT, DGM-IT &amp; other Technology Leaders. Projects in pipeline: 1. Comprehensive online PAN India Employee &quot;social media&quot; platform. 2. Other stakeholders outreach platforms on &quot;social media&quot;…see more
Kotak Mahindra Bank logo
Deputy Manager
Deputy Manager
Kotak Mahindra BankKotak Mahindra Bank
Jul 2007 - Apr 2008 · 10 mosJul 2007 to Apr 2008 · 10 mos
Corporate SalesCorporate Sales
airtel logo
Intern
Intern
Bharti Airtel LimitedBharti Airtel Limited
Jun 2006 - Aug 2006 · 3 mosJun 2006 to Aug 2006 · 3 mos
Was a part of Bharti Airtel Ltd UP(W) team.

1. Responsible to work with Marketing &amp; Sales team in working out the launch of Blackberry enterprise solution services in UP(W) circle covering majot towns viz Agra, Mathura, Aligarh Kosi etc. 

2.Worked on Go-To market strategy zeroing ontarget customer to address, Sales team briefing &amp; competition account mapping.

Highlights:

1. Record sales of Blackberry Solutions( Handset+ Push Mail) in first month of launch in Agra City.
2. Was offered Pre-Placement Offer(PPO).
Winner, Asian Communication Award-Singapore-2012, Founder- EduAce, IPN, Campus Coach and Quizmaster
A Quizzer by Passion, Heart and Mind!

aurava, who runs EduAce Services in Lucknow, pens his thoughts on what are the challenges and advantages of starting up in Lucknow, far away from the hustle of big metropolitan cities.

Early half year 2012, when I was nurturing the thought of starting up, among the key decisions one major decision on which I devoted a crucial time was where I wanted to based out from. I was in Delhi. For almost a decade until than and was fairly well versed with the Delhi start-up ecosystem through my affiliations to TiE, NEN etc.

And, finally after all calculations I arrived at basing myself out of Lucknow, given I was born and brought up in a Jhansi and was quite aware of intricacies associated with the home state Uttar Pradesh. I based my decision on three fundamental parameters.

Economics( Manpower, Office and other residual costs)
Core Business nuance (We wanted to work with the Tier-2 and Tier 3 cities) for which I wanted to live and breathe in their surrounding instead parachuting there once in a while.
My business philosophy -- Being in Delhi we would have been one of the thousands of such ventures. However, in a Tier-2 city we started big from day one. And, doing business is all about a perception value. People don't like to deal with too small a player they like to deal with bigger/reliable/powerful service provider or vendor…specially holding true education space.
Challenges:

Trained manpower- I meet lots of entrepreneur friends who crib about not meeting the right guy or the right fit for their profile folks in Tier-2. To which my answer is simple had it been that easy everyone would have done and more importantly this can be a tremendous opportunity in itself….to be me in Tier-2 cities you need to invest more time in your people management skills than anything…because if your core team is intact….people will come and people will go but the core team will always be more loyal and will be lifelong part of your organisation which is so hard to find these days.
No Investors- To this I say investors are everywhere….it will be better to say that you may not find more posh and excel understanding investors in Tier-2 or Tier-3 cities. As, in cities like Lucknow, Kanpur, CHANDIGARH, people have only done business on core idea of business. Business which makes money to them is called business, They have very little understanding of terms called "VALUATIONS' and which in its own teaches or makes the start-up from day 1 one understand and to how do I make it working financially sooner than later.
Therefore, given the growth lies in Tier-2 and Tier 3 cities, startups should be ready to toil hard, get their hands dirty. If the business demands to have a model of on-ground and online model develop the on-ground piece first. As that will become your biggest strength while you go and seek investors.

Make more and more products aimed at cities beyond metros, stuff which are rudimentary yet common sense driven…you cannot ideate and churn ideas every day. There are lot of common problems still not addressed at this level, requiring a passionate entrepreneur to take it up as a mission.
Gaurava Yadav is an International Award-winning entrepreneur, business quiz champion, and the founder of IPN FORUM, India’s largest network of school leaders. An avid quizzer, he has won prestigious national-level business quizzes, including Tata Crucible Corporate Quiz 2009 (Runner-Up) and championships at IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Roorkee, IMI-Delhi, IIITM-Gwalior, and SIBM-Pune.
His professional initiative, Grey Gambit, won the Best Social Media Initiative Award at the Asia Communications Award 2012 in Singapore. With expertise in business, general knowledge, and current affairs, Gaurava is a sought-after Quizmaster, known for his engaging and research-driven quiz formats.
Beyond quizzing, he leads IPN Mission AIM, aiming to train 1 million teachers in AI, and collaborates with WWF-India for conservation education. When not working, he enjoys reading autobiographies and biographies and spending time with his daughters, Priyanshi and Vaani.


Businessa and Programs
https://ipnacademy.in/
https://magicofskills.com/
https://ipnfoundation.org/
http://yuva.ipnfoundation.org/
https://global.ipnfoundation.org/
https://www.campuscoach.in/
https://2025.questeduace.in/



https://www.facebook.com/gauravayadavindia/
https://www.linkedin.com/in/gauravayadav/
https://x.com/yadavgaurava

084007 00199
gaurava@eduace.in